HTTP Methods

GET - The GET Method Is Used to retrieve the resources requested by the client . It Doesn't alter or change any sort of Data , It just retrieves and provides the requested Resource.

HEAD - The HEAD Method Is very Identical to the GET method but the only difference is that when we send a request using the HEAD method , the response we get from the server doesn't contain the message Body. This Method is used to check the validity of hyperlinks , check any recent changes etc.

POST- The POST Method is used to invoke functions at the back end , In this method mostly a new entity is created or deleted  like a new comment , registering a new user , deleting an account etc. The action taken to POST requests can vary and sometimes even the requested action is not performed and this can be due to several reasons.

PUT- The PUT method is used to invoke the functions at the back end , In this no new entity will be created instead of that it updates the existing entity like updating an existing comment , updating your account , updating a blog etc . Again,  The action taken to PUT request can vary and sometimes even the requested action is not performed and this can be due to several reasons.

DELETE- The DELETE  method is used when the client wants to delete a resource from the server . In this , the user tells the server to delete a specific resource using the DELETE method .

TRACE-  The TRACE method is a very uncommon method and used very rarely . In the TRACE method the request message is reflected back to the requester in the response . This Helps in knowing what actually the server is receiving and uses that information for testing and diagnosis of any issue.

CONNECT - This method is reserved for proxy , When you are using Proxy . It is used to access the websites which require SSL , Over a proxy Network .

OPTION-  This method is used to request the information from the server about the communication methods available. For example, calling for OPTIONS may indicate that the server
accepts GET, POST, HEAD, TRACE and OPTIONS calls but not PUT or DELETE.





